It's important to realize that type
information, these interfaces.
This assertIsTypedArray thing that we
just made in the teams file, right?
Assert is typed array, this needs tests
just like anything else needs tests.
And it's a different kind of test to
write because the type information
is not imperative code that's executed
line by line by line by line.
[LAUGH] The way I think about it,
it's like a balloon animal
where if you squeeze one side,
the other side puffs up and
you squeeze the other side, so
there's no sense of ordering.
It's more, we check to make sure
everything is lined up in one step.
There's no time aspect to it in terms of
some things are executed
before other things.
It's just a set of constraints.
And in one big step,
we see if everything lines up.
So it's a little counterintuitive
to debug things just
because we're not used to
thinking about code in this way.
However, tests are a great tool,
both in terms of protecting
your code from regressions.
And in terms of getting to
the bottom of mysterious problems
by sort of taking a big chunk of
things that are not working and
sort of doing a bisection search where
you write some tests because you know,
okay, this works, or
this case here has to work.
Write a bunch of tests and then you can
sort of narrow down where the cause of
the problem is,
as you attempt different fixes.
So tests are really, really,
really important aspect of
a healthy TypeScript project.
Of course,
you can write tests in TypeScript.
Like we have these tests written with Jest
but these are only positive test cases.
They're things that should work and
do work.
It's really hard with this existing tool
to write things that shouldn't work and
must not work.
These kinds of tests are important too,
the negative test cases.
And if we were to just throw those
in to Jest, into the test suite for
values like react components,
the compiler would break,
it would say, I can't run your tests.
There's a compiler error, right?
Doesn't really give us
a great way of doing that.
I reach for two tools, and
I'm not, in some ways they're two choices,
you could use one or the other.
I use both because one is
better at some things and
the other is better at other things.
And I think that both together give
me the confidence I need to make sure
that my really complicated types, when
they're unnecessary, they keep working.
And I'm alerted as early as
possible when things break.
And here's something you need
to know about TypeScript.
It doesn't follow semantic versioning.
Every middle digit release of the
TypeScript compiler which happens about
every six weeks, these days.
That introduces breaking changes and
the TypeScript team,
their position on semantic
versioning is they believe
that there's no such thing as
a truly non breaking change.
And oftentimes they will fix bugs that
cause other people's code to break.
Now, this is not to say that
they're acting irresponsibly or
they're bad, but it's just the reality
of the way this project is managed.
And I've never built a competing
thing to TypeScript.
So I am not saying that there's
definitely a better way and
they should do this the better way.
I'm just saying there's risk,
every compiler version, every
middle digit release comes with breaking
changes and they publish a list of them.
And some of these are really
hard to figure out.
So what we're gonna do here is
we'll set up this test suite and
part of this is gonna let us run our
code against nightly TypeScript builds.
So if you look at the workshop project
itself, and go to this Actions tab.
You'll see that I have a couple
different jobs here, right,
I've got code, security issues,
image minification.
This one second from the bottom,
this is TypeScript at next tests.
And you can see every 24 hours I'm
pulling down the latest nightly build
of the compiler.
And I'm making sure that it
continues to work with this project.
Because I wanna know about whether
something's gonna break when it lands in
master, on the TypeScript project,
because I can then try to see,
was this, did they introduce a bug
that I need to tell them about?
Or was I depending on
the existence of a bug, right?
So you can use GitHub actions to set up a
cron job effectively, which every 24 hours
will make sure that the latest nightly
build still works with your project.
Super, super valuable as an early warning
system, so you don't find out when
everybody else is taking an NES release,
like greenkeeper or dependabot, it's
going around upgrading all the open source
libraries and your stuff is breaking.
It's a really urgent
problem at that point.
It's very valuable to know
about this well in advance.